---
layout: post
title: My Entry into the World of Software Development
---

It all started back when I was working as an undergraduate research assistant, helping out with exciting projects such as investigating how visual feedback can improve posture in the elderly, and observing social patterns in animals. The science behind these projects was interesting. I found it fascinating for example, that skeletal muscles can produce electrical activity, which can then be used to diagnose various diseases. Or that different groups of animals have different types of movement patterns. But there was something that I knew I had to understand in order to see how these scientific concepts could be put into action, and how they can truly benefit people and animals.

It was not long before I came to understand that technology was a very important part of making these projects a reality. Sure, it’s fascinating that we have so many muscles in our body, and even cooler that these muscles can produce electrical activity. But surely, there had to be a way to actually measure this electrical activity, so that we could visualize its results on a computer? Furthermore, there had to be a way to observe how visual information can affect balance in the elderly. Could we build technology that would allow elderly patients to walk and then somehow measure their balance? Indeed, that is what was done as part of the research, and in order to understand these concepts, I had to dabble with Matlab. To truly understand what social patterns looked in in animals such as squirrels and spider monkeys, I had to try my hand at the R programming language.

Of course, learning to program for the first time was a challenge, but it was one that I enjoyed. I was amazed that I could use a few lines of code to see instant results, and I knew then that I wanted to pursue this further. Shortly after these experiences, I searched the web for information on other programming languages, and began to tackle JavaScript. I learned a lot from attending events such as Women Who Code, and from building small projects such as a pomodoro clock and calculator.

In my quest for further knowledge, I took my first programming class as a graduate student, and learned to solve problems in C++. This class solidified my interest in programming, but I knew I wanted to learn more about web development. I saw something novel and exciting in the idea of seeing an application on the internet. When I came across Flatiron’s Learn Verified, I found myself working unstoppably through the Intro to Ruby track. I loved the way that Flatiron’s online course was set up, decided then that I wanted to build a web application using the Ruby language.  

Thus far, learning Ruby, and gaining additional knowledge through Sinatra and Rails has been an enjoyable ride. Sure, I’ve faced many challenges along the way, but I’ve also grown to enjoy the process of receiving errors and then working to debug them. And now, I look forward to adding to the front-end of the applications that I’ve built, as I continue to work through JavaScript, jQuery, and Angular.